# Bayesian Calibration Of the Two Element Windkessel Model
This thesis explores the properties of Windkessel Models based on synthetic simulation studies. The Windkessel models estimate the global arterial properties by relating measured (aortic) pressure and flow through linear differential equations. The aim is to make inference about the physically interpretable parameters of these equation; total vascular resistance and arterial compliance.  We perform inference using an adaptive MCMC strategy. This allows us to successfully omit the use of an emulator for the computer model and is one of the main contributions of our work. To account for model discrepancy we set up the inverse problem in a Bayesian calibration framework. Based on synthetically derived pressure observations we solve the inverse problem accounting for and quantifying the uncertainty in the model formulation and the parameter estimates. As our second main contribution, we investigate the effect of dependent and independent noise in simulated pressure observations on the uncertainty and accuracy of parameter estimates. We perform a simple simulation study to confirm that not accounting for model discrepancy may lead to biased, unstable and over-conﬁdent parameter estimates. We model the discrepancy using a Gaussian process. Accounting for discrepancy allows us to successfully recreate the true, physical parameters. This proposed framework drastically reduces the run time of estimating physical parameters for one persons pressure and flow observations down to a couple of seconds. We also demonstrate the challenge with incorporating model discrepancy in confounding issues with physical parameters. This is solved through strictly limiting priors for both the observation noise and discrepancy parameters. Strictly limiting priors yields the most robust parameter estimates when we have simulated observations with time dependent noise. 